1. Create Environment-Specific Settings (dev.py, qa.py, etc.):
First, in your project, create the following configuration files in the settings/ directory:
dev.py (for development)
qa.py (for QA)
itg.py (for integration testing)
prod.py (for production)
Each of these files will inherit common settings from base.py and include environment-specific configurations.

2. Push to GitHub:
Push all these configuration files (dev.py, qa.py, itg.py, prod.py) along with the rest of your code to the main branch (or whatever your default branch is) in GitHub.
3. Create Branches for Different Environments:
You should have branches for different environments, as you mentioned:

dev – for active development.
qa – for quality assurance testing.
itg – for integration testing.
prod – for production-ready code.
These branches will be used to manage code across different stages.

4. Branch Workflow:
When working with features or bug fixes, your team will typically follow this workflow:

Step 1: Developers Clone the Dev Branch:
Developers clone the dev branch when working on a new feature or bug fix.
bash
Copy code
git clone -b dev https://github.com/your-repo.git
Step 2: Create a New Feature Branch:
Developers create their own feature branch from the dev branch.
bash
Copy code
git checkout -b feature/new-feature
They work on the feature locally, and once done, they push the feature branch to GitHub.
bash
Copy code
git push origin feature/new-feature
Step 3: Submit a Pull Request (PR) to dev Branch:
The developer creates a Pull Request (PR) to merge their feature/new-feature branch into the dev branch.
The PR is reviewed, and changes are tested locally or on a dev server if necessary.
Step 4: Merge the Feature Branch into dev:
Once the feature is tested and the PR is approved, the feature branch (feature/new-feature) is merged into the dev branch.
bash
Copy code
git checkout dev
git merge feature/new-feature
Step 5: Test on Dev Environment:
After merging the feature into dev, you deploy the dev branch to the development environment.
Set the environment variable DJANGO_SETTINGS_MODULE=your_project.settings.dev for the dev environment so it uses the dev.py settings.
Step 6: Merge dev into qa for QA Testing:
If the feature works as expected in the dev environment, you then merge the dev branch into the qa branch for QA testing.
bash
Copy code
git checkout qa
git merge dev
The QA team can now test the feature in the QA environment.
Use DJANGO_SETTINGS_MODULE=your_project.settings.qa for the QA environment.
Step 7: Repeat for itg and prod:
Once the QA is approved, you repeat the process by merging the qa branch into the itg branch and then into the prod branch.

For ITG:

bash
Copy code
git checkout itg
git merge qa
For production:

bash
Copy code
git checkout prod
git merge itg
The prod branch should always contain the production-ready code. You can then deploy the prod branch to your production environment with the proper settings (DJANGO_SETTINGS_MODULE=your_project.settings.prod).

Full Cycle Summary:
Create Environment-Specific Settings:

dev.py, qa.py, itg.py, and prod.py in your settings folder.
Push the Code to GitHub:

Push the codebase with all the settings files to the main branch (or default branch).
Create Branches for Each Environment:

dev, qa, itg, prod branches for managing code across different stages.
Feature Development Workflow:

Developers clone the dev branch → create a feature branch → work on the feature → create a PR to merge into dev.
After approval, merge the feature into dev.
Testing and Deployment Workflow:

Deploy the dev branch to the dev environment and test it.
If the feature works in dev, merge dev into qa for QA testing.
Once QA testing is successful, merge qa into itg for integration testing.
After successful ITG, merge itg into prod for production deployment.
By following this workflow, you ensure a smooth transition of code from development to production, while keeping things organized across different branches and environments.










https://chatgpt.com/c/6717a670-d158-800e-94b8-1de736539584